A Continent
It is a general definition that a Continent is a very large land mass that is separated from other continents in the world by oceans. But, that is not precise. These continents are separated only by geographical boundaries that limit these land masses to a certain area. Rather, the continents are defined by the rocks it's made of and how it came to be that matter. These continents are a group of some countries which are conglomerated based on certain physical and geographic characters.

A Country
A Country is a certain part of a continent defined by some specific geographical territories. These are separable with other countries politically and culturally. Every country will have its own law, constitution, government, and other governing institutions. In spite of having a few similarities, each country is a separate entity having unique cultural and traditional practices.

How many countries are there in the world?
The exact number of countries in the world is an even more hotly debated subject. A country is defined as a nation or sovereign state with its own independent government or as an area of land that forms an independent political unit with its own government. As of November 2021, the United Nations recognizes 195 countries in the world. 193 of these countries are members of the United Nations (UN) and two countries are not: Vatican City/Holy See and the State of Palestine, both of which are classified as non-member observer states.

However, U.N. membership is not the last word on the subject of nationhood. There also exist dozens of "territories" which are technically not countries because they are ruled by another nation. Some of these territories are largely independent, but still part of another country—for instance, Greenland is actually part of Denmark, and Puerto Rico is officially part of the United States (though not a state).

Even more confusingly, some would-be countries have declared their independence, but haven't yet been officially recognized by enough members of the United Nations (U.N.), and so are technically still considered territories, not countries. For example, Kosovo is treated as its own independent country by some U.N. members but still treated as part of Serbia by others. Another example is Taiwan (also known as the Republic of China), which was its own sovereign state until it was subsumed by mainland China, which prevents any attempt by the United Nations to reinstate Taiwan's full country status.

Many territories of all types will be included on this list but will be marked to distinguish them from the U.N.-recognized countries.

One final point regarding this particular list of countries per continent: A few countries bridge the gap between two continents, such as Russia (Europe/Asia), Cyprus (Europe/Asia), and Egypt (Africa/Asia). These transcontinental countries will be tallied with whatever continent the U.N. considers them.